Package management is a method of installing and 
maintaining (which includes updating and probably 
removing as well) software on the system.
If a certain package requires a certain resource 
such as a shared library, or another package, 
it is said to have a dependency. 

dpkg is a low-level package manager for Debian-based 
systems. It can install, remove, provide information
about and build *.deb packages but it can’t 
automatically download and install their corresponding 
dependencies.

apt-get is a high-level package manager for Debian and 
derivatives, and provides a simple way to retrieve and 
install packages, including dependency resolution, 
from multiple sources using the command line.
Unlike dpkg, apt-get does not work directly with *.deb 
files, but with the package proper name.

aptitude is another high-level package manager for 
Debian-based systems, and can be used to perform 
management tasks (installing, upgrading, and removing
packages, also handling dependency resolution
automatically) in a fast and easy way.

rpm is the package management system used by Linux 
Standard Base (LSB)-compliant distributions for 
low-level handling of packages.

yum adds the functionality of automatic updates and 
package management with dependency management to 
RPM-based systems.

Some of the commands used are: 
     1.To view the package details: yum info PACKAGENAME 
     2.Install a package:  yum install PACKAGENAME 
     3.Update all PAckage: yum update
     4.Remove a package: yum remove PACKAGENAME
     5.To view transaction history: yum remove PACKAGENAME
     6.To reverse a transaction: yum history undo INDEXNUMBER

Yum package manager: 
The Yellowdog Updater, Modified (YUM) is a free and 
open-source command-line package-management utility 
for computers running the Linux operating system using 
the RPM Package Manager.
YUM allows for automatic updates and package and 
dependency management on RPM-based distributions.

Yam Repository:
   1.It is warehouse of linux software.
   2.It holds a number of.  RPM package file and 
     enable download and installation of new software 
     on our VPS.
   *Yum Repository
    YUM Repository configuration files must:
    1. be located in /etc/yum.repos.d/ directory
    2. have .repo extension, to be recognized by YUM
